If you are in certain parts of the world, this video will not report anything new. But all
others: Welcome to Wales, and what might be the strangest bridge you've ever seen.
This is the Newport Transport Bridge, one of only a handful of transport bridges still in place
active. And you will notice something strange when you stand on the ground.
There is not a lot of bridge deck to see. At the top there is one for maintenance and
to use frightened tourists, but there is no through road. Instead there is one
type of air ferry: There is a bridge section that goes back and forth,
connected by huge cables here at the top.
That raises a question: Why not a ferry? Well, the Usk River, here, is part of it
the river mouth of the Severn, which has one of the biggest time differences in the world. So low
that it is for the most part a mud flat. A normal ferry would not come close to the bank.
But instead a bridge with a few very difficult design requirements.
First of all, the ships that sailed here a hundred years ago, when the bridge was built, were huge,
so the bridge had to be at least as high. But the bank is low, so enough
To gain height with a normal bridge, it must be kilometers long. What a lot
more expensive, mostly a century ago, and you could also be a big part of Newport
must break off.
You could use a swing bridge or lift, but they would need a solid surface
in the middle of the deep, wild river. Expensive. In addition, the fast and dangerous currents here
would mean that ships would have great difficulty not to hit the bridge.
So you can not use a bridge, you can not use a ferry, but you can.
It is a strange combination, a hundred years old - and that hundred years is the reason why
they are no longer being built. Because in those hundred years technology has made great strides.
First, we can dig through long, deep tunnels under the river, instead of going over it, and
we should not worry about breaking things down. Second, we have cars and
buses, no horse and cart. The detour of seven kilometers that this bridge prevented is by no means
such a big problem: You just drive around it. But nevertheless this bridge
an icon for Newport, for Wales. It is a tourist trajectory, for very self-confident tourists.
And the toll is only a pound. So this bridge will still stand for a century or two.
Translated by: Wauteurz